Free Interview Questions PDF from http://www.questpond.com
.NET Interview questions

Basic .NET Framework

What is a IL?
Twist :- What is MSIL or CIL , What is JIT?
What is a CLR?
What is a CTS?
What is a CLS(Common Language Specification)?
What is a Managed Code?
What is a Assembly ?
What are different types of Assembly?
What is NameSpace?
What is Difference between NameSpace and Assembly?
If you want to view a Assembly how to you go about it ?
Twist : What is ILDASM ?
What is Manifest?
Where is version information stored of a assembly ?
Is versioning applicable to private assemblies?
What is GAC ?
Twist :- What are situations when you register .NET assembly in GAC ?
What is concept of strong names ?
Twist :- How do we generate strong names or what is the process of
generating strong names , What is use of SN.EXE , How do we apply
strong names to assembly ? , How do you sign an assembly ?
How to add and remove a assembly from GAC?
What is Delay signing ?
What is garbage collection?
Can we force garbage collector to run ?
What is reflection?
What are different type of JIT ?
What are Value types and Reference types ?
What is concept of Boxing and Unboxing ?
What's difference between VB.NET and C# ?
What's difference between System exceptions and Application
exceptions?
What is CODE Access security?
What is a satellite assembly?
How to prevent my .NET DLL to be decompiled?
What's the difference between Convert.toString and .toString()
method ?
What is Native Image Generator (Ngen.exe)?
We have two version of the same assembly in GAC? I want my client to
make choice of
which assembly to choose?
What is CodeDom?

.NET Interoperability

How can we use COM Components in .NET?
Twist : What is RCW ?
Once i have developed the COM wrapper do i have to still register the
COM in registry?
How can we use .NET components in COM?
Twist :- What is CCW (COM callable wrapper) ?, What caution needs to
be taken in order that .NET components is compatible with COM ?
How can we make Windows API calls in .NET?
When we use windows API in .NET is it managed or unmanaged code ?
What is COM ?
What is Reference counting in COM ?
Can you describe IUKNOWN interface in short ?
Can you explain what is DCOM ?
How do we create DCOM object in VB6?
How to implement DTC in .NET ?
How many types of Transactions are there in COM + .NET ?
How do you do object pooling in .NET ?
What are types of compatibility in VB6?
What is equivalent for regsvr32 exe in .NET ?

Threading

What is Multi-tasking ?
What is Multi-threading ?
What is a Thread ?
Did VB6 support multi-threading ?
Can we have multiple threads in one App domain ?
Which namespace has threading ?
Can you explain in brief how can we implement threading ?
How can we change priority and what the levels of priority are
provided by .NET ?
What does Addressof operator do in background ?
How can you reference current thread of the method ?
What's Thread.Sleep() in threading ?
How can we make a thread sleep for infinite period ?
What is Suspend and Resume in Threading ?
What the way to stop a long running thread ?
How do i debug thread ?
What's Thread.Join() in threading ?
What are Daemon thread's and how can a thread be created as Daemon?
When working with shared data in threading how do you implement
synchronization ?
Can we use events with threading ?
How can we know a state of a thread?
What is a monitor object?
What are wait handles ?
Twist :- What is a mutex object ?
what is ManualResetEvent and AutoResetEvent ?
What is ReaderWriter Locks ?
How can you avoid deadlock in threading ?
What's difference between thread and process?

Remoting and Webservices

What is a application domain?
What is .NET Remoting ?
Which class does the remote object has to inherit ?
What are two different types of remote object creation mode in .NET ?
Describe in detail Basic of SAO architecture of Remoting?
What are the situations you will use singleton architecture in
remoting ?
What is fundamental of published or precreated objects in Remoting ?
What are the ways client can create object on server in CAO model ?
Are CAO stateful in nature ?
In CAO model when we want client objects to be created by "NEW"
keyword is there
any precautions to be taken ?
Is it a good design practice to distribute the implementation to
Remoting Client ?
What is LeaseTime,SponsorshipTime ,RenewonCallTime and
LeaseManagerPollTime?
Which config file has all the supported channels/protocol ?
How can you specify remoting parameters using Config files ?
Can Non-Default constructors be used with Single Call SAO?
Twist :- What are the limitation of constructors for Single call SAO ?
How can we call methods in remoting Asynchronously ?
What is Asynchronous One-Way Calls ?
What is marshalling and what are different kinds of marshalling ?
What is ObjRef object in remoting ?
What is a WebService ?
What is UDDI ?
What is DISCO ?
What is WSDL?
What the different phase/steps of acquiring a proxy object in
Webservice ?
What is file extension of Webservices ?
Which attribute is used in order that the method can be used as
WebService ?
What are the steps to create a webservice and consume it ?
Do webservice have state ?

Caching Concepts

What is application object ?
What's the difference between Cache object and application object ?
How can get access to cache object ?
What are dependencies in cache and types of dependencies ?
Can you show a simple code showing file dependency in cache ?
What is Cache Callback in Cache ?
What is scavenging ?
What are different types of caching using cache object of ASP.NET?
How can you cache different version of same page using ASP.NET cache
object ?
How will implement Page Fragment Caching ?
What are ASP.NET session and compare ASP.NET session with classic ASP
session variables?
Which various modes of storing ASP.NET session ?
Is Session_End event supported in all session modes ?
What are the precautions you will take in order that StateServer Mode
work properly ?
What are the precautions you will take in order that SQLSERVER Mode
work properly ?
Where do you specify session state mode in ASP.NET ?
What are the other ways you can maintain state ?
What are benefits and Limitation of using Hidden fields ?
What is ViewState ?
Do performance vary for viewstate according to User controls ?
What are benefits and Limitation of using Viewstate for state
management?
How an you use Hidden frames to cache client data ?
What are benefits and Limitation of using Hidden frames?
What are benefits and Limitation of using Cookies?
What is Query String and What are benefits and Limitation of using
Query Strings?

OOPS

What is Object Oriented Programming ?
What's a Class ?
What's a Object ?
What's the relation between Classes and Objects ?
What are different properties provided by Object-oriented systems ?
Twist :- Can you explain different properties of Object Oriented
Systems?
Twist :- What's difference between Association , Aggregation and
Inheritance relationships?
How can we acheive inheritance in VB.NET ?
What are abstract classes ?
What's a Interface ?
What is difference between abstract classes and interfaces?
What is a delegate ?
What are event's ?
Do events have return type ?
Can event's have access modifiers ?
Can we have shared events ?
What is shadowing ?
What's difference between Shadowing and Overriding ?
What's difference between delegate and events?
If we inherit a class do the private variables also get inherited ?
What are different accessibility levels defined in .NET ?
Can you prevent a class from overriding ?
What's the use of "MustInherit" keyword in VB.NET ?
Why can not you specify accessibility modifier in Interface ?
What are similarities between Class and structure ?
What's the difference between Class and structure's ?
What does virtual keyword mean ?
What are shared (VB.NET)/Static(C#) variables?
What is Dispose method in .NET ?
Whats the use of "OverRides" and "Overridable" keywords ?
Where are all .NET Collection classes located ?
What is ArrayList ?
What's a HashTable ?
Twist :- What's difference between HashTable and ArrayList ?
What are queues and stacks ?
What is ENUM ?
What is nested Classes ?
What's Operator Overloading in .NET?
In below sample code if we create a object of class2 which constructor
will fire first ?
What's the significance of Finalize method in .NET?
Why is it preferred to not use finalize for clean up?
How can we suppress a finalize method?
What's the use of DISPOSE method?
How do I force the Dispose method to be called automatically, as
clients can forget to call Dispose method?
In what instances you will declare a constructor to be private?
Can we have different access modifiers on get/set methods of a
property ?
If we write a goto or a return statement in try and catch block will
the finally block execute ?
What is Indexer ?
Can we have static indexer in C# ?
In a program there are multiple catch blocks so can it happen that two
catch blocks are executed ?
What is the difference between System.String and System.StringBuilder
classes?

ASP.NET

What's the sequence in which ASP.NET events are processed ?
In which event are the controls fully loaded ?
How can we identify that the Page is PostBack ?
How does ASP.NET maintain state in between subsequent request ?
What is event bubbling ?
How do we assign page specific attributes ?
Administrator wants to make a security check that no one has tampered
with ViewState , how can he ensure this ?
What's the use of @ Register directives ?
What's the use of SmartNavigation property ?
What is AppSetting Section in "Web.Config" file ?
Where is ViewState information stored ?
What's the use of @ OutputCache directive in ASP.NET?
How can we create custom controls in ASP.NET ?
How many types of validation controls are provided by ASP.NET ?
Can you explain what is "AutoPostBack" feature in ASP.NET ?
How can you enable automatic paging in DataGrid ?
What's the use of "GLOBAL.ASAX" file ?
What's the difference between "Web.config" and "Machine.Config" ?
What's a SESSION and APPLICATION object ?
What's difference between Server.Transfer and response.Redirect ?
What's difference between Authentication and authorization?
What is impersonation in ASP.NET ?
Can you explain in brief how the ASP.NET authentication process works?
What are the various ways of authentication techniques in ASP.NET?
How does authorization work in ASP.NET?
What's difference between Datagrid , Datalist and repeater ?
From performance point of view how do they rate ?
What's the method to customize columns in DataGrid?
How can we format data inside DataGrid?
How will decide the design consideration to take a Datagrid , datalist
or repeater ?
Difference between ASP and ASP.NET?
What are major events in GLOBAL.ASAX file ?
What order they are triggered ?
Do session use cookies ?
How can we force all the validation control to run ?
How can we check if all the validation control are valid and proper ?
If you have client side validation is enabled in your Web page , Does
that mean server side code is not run?
Which JavaScript file is referenced for validating the validators at
the client side ?
How to disable client side script in validators?
I want to show the entire validation error message in a message box on
the client side?
You find that one of your validation is very complicated and does not
fit in any of the validators , so what will you do ?
What is Tracing in ASP.NET ?
How do we enable tracing ?
What exactly happens when ASPX page is requested from Browser?
How can we kill a user session ?
How do you upload a file in ASP.NET ?
How do I send email message from ASP.NET ?
What are different IIS isolation levels?
ASP used STA threading model , whats the threading model used for
ASP.NET ?
Whats the use of <%@ page aspcompat=true %> attribute ?
Explain the differences between Server-side and Client-side code?
Can you explain Forms authentication in detail ?
How do I sign out in forms authentication ?
If cookies are not enabled at browser end does form Authentication
work?
How to use a checkbox in a datagrid?
What are the steps to create a windows service in VB.NET ?
What's the difference between "Web farms" and "Web garden"?
How do we configure "WebGarden"?
What is the main difference between Gridlayout and FlowLayout ?

.NET Architecture

What are design patterns ?
What's difference between Factory and Abstract Factory Pattern's?
What's MVC pattern?
Twist: - How can you implement MVC pattern in ASP.NET?
How can we implement singleton pattern in .NET?
How do you implement prototype pattern in .NET?
Twist: - How to implement cloning in .NET ? , What is shallow copy and
deep copy ?
What are the situations you will use a Web Service and Remoting in
projects?
Can you give a practical implementation of FAÇADE patterns?
How can we implement observer pattern in .NET?
What is three tier architecture?
Have you ever worked with Microsoft Application Blocks, if yes then
which?
What is Service Oriented architecture?
What are different ways you can pass data between tiers?
What is Windows DNA architecture?
What is aspect oriented programming?

ADO.NET

What is the namespace in which .NET has the data functionality
classes ?
Can you give a overview of ADO.NET architecture ?
What are the two fundamental objects in ADO.NET ?
What is difference between dataset and datareader ?
What are major difference between classic ADO and ADO.NET ?
What is the use of connection object ?
What is the use of command objects and what are the methods provided
by the command object ?
What is the use of dataadapter ?
What are basic methods of Dataadapter ?
What is Dataset object?
What are the various objects in Dataset ?
How can we connect to Microsoft Access , Foxpro , Oracle etc ?
How do we connect to SQL SERVER , which namespace do we use ?
How do we use stored procedure in ADO.NET and how do we provide
parameters to the stored procedures?
How can we force the connection object to close after my datareader is
closed ?
I want to force the datareader to return only schema of the datastore
rather than data ?
How can we fine tune the command object when we are expecting a single
row or a single value ?
Which is the best place to store connectionstring in .NET projects ?
What are steps involved to fill a dataset ?
Twist :- How can we use dataadapter to fill a dataset ?
What are the various methods provided by the dataset object to
generate XML?
How can we save all data from dataset ?
How can we check that some changes have been made to dataset since it
was loaded ?
Twist :- How can we cancel all changes done in dataset ? , How do we
get values which are changed in a dataset ?
How can we add/remove row's in "DataTable" object of "DataSet" ?
What's basic use of "DataView" ?
What's difference between "DataSet" and "DataReader" ?
Twist :- Why is DataSet slower than DataReader ?
How can we load multiple tables in a DataSet ?
How can we add relation's between table in a DataSet ?
What's the use of CommandBuilder ?
What's difference between "Optimistic" and "Pessimistic" locking ?
How many way's are there to implement locking in ADO.NET ?
How can we perform transactions in .NET?
What's difference between Dataset. clone and Dataset. copy ?
Can you explain the difference between an ADO.NET Dataset and an ADO
Recordset?
Explain in detail the fundamental of connection pooling?
What is Maximum Pool Size in ADO.NET Connection String?
How to enable and disable connection pooling?

SQL SERVER

What is normalization? What are different type of normalization?
What is denormalization ?
What is a candidate key ?
What are different types of joins and whats the difference between
them ?
What are indexes and What is the difference between clustered and
nonclustered indexes?
How can you increase SQL performance ?
What is the use of OLAP ?
What's a measure in OLAP ?
What are dimensions in OLAP ?
What are levels in dimensions ?
What are fact tables and dimension tables in OLAP ?
Twist :- can you explain the star schema for OLAP ?
What is DTS?
What is fillfactor ?
Twist :- When does plage split occurs ?
What is RAID and how does it work ?
What's the difference between DELETE TABLE and TRUNCATE TABLE
commands?
What are the problems that can occur if you do not implement locking
properly in SQL SERVER ?
What are different transaction levels in SQL SERVER ?
Twist :- what are different types of locks in SQL SERVER ?
What are different locks in SQL SERVER ?
Can we suggest locking hints to SQL SERVER ?
What is LOCK escalation?
What are the different ways of moving data/databases between servers
and databases in SQL Server?
What are advantages of SQL 2000 over SQl 7.0 ?
What is the difference between a HAVING CLAUSE and a WHERE CLAUSE?
What is difference between UNION and UNION ALL SQL syntax ?
How can you raise custom errors from stored procedure ?
What is ACID fundamental and what are transactions in SQL SERVER ?
What is DBCC?
What is purpose of Replication ?
What are different type of replication supported by SQL SERVER ?
What is BCP utility in SQL SERVER ?
What are different types of triggers in SQl SERVER 2000 ?
If we have multiple AFTER Triggers on table how can we define the
sequence of the triggers ?
What is SQl injection ?
What's the difference between Stored Procedure (SP) and User Defined
Function (UDF)?

UML

What is UML?
How many types of diagrams are there in UML ?
Twist :- Explain in short all types of diagrams in UML ?
What are advantages of using UML?
Twist: - What is Modeling and why UML ?
What's the sequence of UML diagrams in project?
Twist: - How did you implement UML in your project?
Just a small Twist: - Do I need all UML diagrams in a project?
Give a small brief explanation of all Elements in activity diagrams?
Explain Different elements of a collaboration diagram ?
Explain Component diagrams ?
Explain all parts of a deployment diagram?
Describe various components in sequence diagrams?
What are the element in State Chart diagrams ?
Describe different elements in Static Chart diagrams ?
Explain different elements of a Use Case ?
Twist: - What's difference between Activity and sequence diagrams?(I
leave this to the readers)

Project Management

What is project management?
Is spending in IT project's constant through out the project?
Who is a stakeholder ?
Can you explain project life cycle ?
Twist :- How many phases are there in software project ?
Are risk constant through out the project ?
Can you explain different software development life cycles ?
What is triple constraint triangle in project management ?
What is a project baselines ?
What is effort variance?
How is normally a project management plan document organized ?
How do you estimate a project?
What is CAR (Causal Analysis and Resolution)?
What is DAR (Decision Analysis and Resolution)?
What is a fish bone diagram ?
Twist:- What is Ishikawa diagram ?
What is pareto principle ?
Twist :- What is 80/20 principle ?
How do you handle change request?
What is internal change request?
What is difference between SITP and UTP in testing ?
What are the software you have used for project management?
What are the metrics followed in project management?
Twist: - What metrics will you look at in order to see the project is
moving successfully?
You have people in your team who do not meet there deadlines or do not
perform what are the actions you will take ?
Twist :- Two of your resources have conflict's between them how would
you sort it out ?
What is black box testing and White box testing?
What's the difference between Unit Testing, Assembly Testing and
Regression testing?
What is V model in testing?
How do you start a project?
How did you do resource allocations?
How do you do code reviews ?
What is CMMI?
What are the five levels in CMMI?
What is continuous and staged representation?
Can you explain the process areas?
What is SIX sigma?
What is DMAIC and DMADV ?
What are the various roles in Six Sigma implementation?
What are function points?
Twist: - Define Elementary process in FPA?
What are different types of elementary process in FPA?
What are the different elements in Functions points?
Can you explain in GSC and VAF in function points?
What are unadjusted function points and how is it calculated?
Can you explain steps in function points?
What is the FP per day in your current company?
Twist :- What is your company's productivity factor ?
Do you know Use Case points?
What is COCOMO I, COCOMOII and COCOMOIII?
What is SMC approach of estimation?
How do you estimate maintenance project and change requests?

XML

What is XML?
What is the version information in XML?
What is ROOT element in XML?
If XML does not have closing tag will it work?
Is XML case sensitive?
What's the difference between XML and HTML?
Is XML meant to replace HTML?
Can you explain why your project needed XML?
What is DTD (Document Type definition)?
What is well formed XML?
What is a valid XML?
What is CDATA section in XML?
What is CSS?
What is XSL?
What is Element and attributes in XML?
Which are the namespaces in .NET used for XML?
What are the standard ways of parsing XML document?
In What scenarios will you use a DOM parser and SAX parser?
How was XML handled during COM times?
What's the main difference between MSML and .NET Framework XML
classes?
What are the core functionalities in XML .NET framework? Can you
explain in detail
those functionalities?
What is XSLT?
Define XPATH?
What's the concept of XPOINTER?
What is an XMLReader Class?
What is XMLTextReader?
How do we access attributes using "XmlReader"?
Explain simple Walk through of XmlReader ?
What does XmlValidatingReader class do?

Localization/Globalization

What is Unicode and why was it introduced?
Does .NET support UNICODE and how do you know it supports?
What's the difference between localization and globalization?
What architecture decisions you should consider while planning for
international software's?
How do we get the current culture of the environment in windows and
ASP.NET?
Which are the important namespaces during localization and
globalization?
What are resource files and how do we generate resource files?
Can resource file be in any other format other than resx extensions?
How is resource files actually used in project?
How can we use Culture Auto in project?
What are satellite assemblies?
How do we generate Satellite assemblies?
What is AL.EXE and RESGEN.EXE?
What's the use of resource manager class?
What precautions do we need to take while deploying satellite
assemblies?
Can we get a strongly typed resource class rather than using resource
manager?
Explain fundamentals of "GetGlobalResourceObject" and
"GetLocalResourceObject" functions?
Can we sign a satellite assembly?
Can you explain collation sequence in sql server?
How do we define collation sequence for database and tables?
Can we change the order in a select query with a specified collation
sequence?
What are the best practices to be followed while implementing
globalization and localization?
Why is the culture set to the current thread?
